# E-Magine Backend Gateway Documentation

### Version 1

#### Last updated: 18 Jan 2020 19:53 SGT

## Opcodes List
| Opcode | Side          | Description |
|:------:| ------------- | ----------- |
| 0      | Client        | Hello opcode, sent from server when first connected. |
| 1      | Server        | Identify opcode, sent by client to authenticate using token. |
| 2      | Client        | Message opcode, sent from server when new messages appear. |
| 10     | Client/Server | Heartbeat opcode to request heartbeat from other side. |
| 11     | Client/Server | Heartbeat ACK opcode, used to acknowledge heartbeat by other side. |

### Opcode 0 Hello
-----
Server -> Client

This data will be sent when client establishes connection with server gateway.

```json
{
  "op": 0,
  "heartbeat_interval": 45000
}
```

It will also include a `heartbeat_interval` parameter, 
where clients will be expected to send an opcode 10 Heartbeat to the server after that time in milliseconds.

The client should then proceed to send an Identify Opcode right after connecting, which is described below.

If a malformed request is sent to the gateway, the gateway will close the conneciton with a status code of 4001.

### Opcode 1 Identify
-----
Client -> Server

Clients are supposed to send this opcode and data after establishing connection to the gateway,
in order to verify their identity through the use of the API token obtained after login through the login endpoint.

```json
{
  "op": 1,
  "token": "<insert token here>"
}
```

On successful identification with gateway, the gateway server will send an Opcode 2 Ready packet as shown below,
indicating that we are now ready for realtime message communications.

If identify failed (due to invalid or expired token), the gateway server will close the connection with a status 
code of 4003.

### Opcode 2 Ready
-----
Server -> Client

Upon successful authentication and identification with the gateway server through an Opcode 1 Identify,
the gateway server will respond and send this opcode when it is ready for communication and message updates of server.

```json
{
  "op": 1,
  "user": "<User ID>"
}
```

The connection is now ready for message events from the gateway server. All message events will be sent to the gateway client
via an Opcode 3 Message event.

### Opcode 3 Message
-----
Server -> Client

After in the ready state when the Opcode 2 Ready is sent out by the gateway server, the gateway client will receive this opcode
whenever there is a new message created.

```js
// TODO
```

### Opcode 10 Heartbeat
-----
Client <-> Server (Bidirectional)

When the client establishes connection with the gateway server, the gateway server will periodically sent out this opcode on
a regular basis, usually at 45 seconds or 45000 milliseconds. 

```json
{
  "op": 10,
  "time": 1579276740336
}
```

The payload should contain an unix timestamp of when the heartbeat is requested so that tracking of acknowledgement will 
be easy. The client is also able to send this opcode to request an acknowledgement from the server to test the connection.

If the client fails to successfully send the Opcode 11 Heartbeat ACK packet back to the gateway within the interval period,
the client will be disconnected with a status code of 4002.

### Opcode 11 Hearbeat ACK
-----
Client <-> Server (Bidirectional)

When either the gateway server or client receives an Opcode 10 Heartbeat event/packet from the other side, they should 
immediately respond with this opcode to reply and acknowledge the heartbeat request.

```json
{
  "op": 11,
  "time": 1579276740336
}
```

The payload should also contain the original unix timestamp received from the Opcode 10 Heartbeat in order to track the heartbeat request
on the other side. Ping and latency can be calculated from the heartbeat by finding the difference in the current unix time and the time
that the hearbeat request was created and sent out.